Nitroimidazoles are antibiotics that are used to treat
a number of infections caused by bacteria
that don't need oxygen to stay alive
and other single celled organisms called protozoa.
These include infections caused by certain parasites.
Infections may or can occur in the mouth,
stomach, skin, joints and respiratory tract,
as well as some types of sexually transmitted diseases.
Nitroimidazole antibiotics treat infections
by selectively entering the cells of bacteria
or parasites through small holes.
The cell strips the drug molecule of oxygen,
making it more toxic to the cell.
When the drug attaches to the cell's DNA,
the structure becomes unstable and the DNA will break.
Once the cells can no longer multiply adequately
the infection is weakened
and the body's natural immune system takes over
allowing recovery to take place.